---
layout:   post
title:    "Very Good Bad Thing"
date:     2020-2-19
excerpt:  "Two years since starting testosterone, reflection on my transition"
comments: false
tag:
- personal
---

The TL:DR; of this post is that my name is Steven & I'm a nonbinary
trans man. If we're friends & you've been following my transition, you
know how I want to be referred to. If this is news to you, I'd kindly
ask you call me Steven & refer to me using he/him/his pronouns.

---


It’s been 2 years since I started taking testosterone. Mostly I’ve been
on & off T at a pretty low dose. I’ve used a lot of different labels for
myself over the years & especially so this year. I called myself: queer,
nonbinary, trans, lesbian & masculine, for the most part. I started
thinking about why & came to the conclusion that it was because I was
excluded from being a boy for most of my life & then I was forced &/or
assumed to be feminine to survive being a "woman" in male-dominated
spaces & with patriarchy.


I’ve been at a higher dose of T now for a month. I’ve been feeling way
better about the way I look & how I feel. I've made a lot of steps to
create a more masculine presentation for myself. I picked out a more
typically masculine name, I re-organized my closet to have men's
clothing that fits me easily accessible everyday, & the higher dose of T
has already resulted in a noticably more masculine figure. I'm hopeful
about scheduling bottom surgery soon & working on changing my name
legally.


I really like being masculine & I think there’s nothing wrong with
choosing to express my masculinity by transitioning for myself, at my
own speed. It’s been hard transitioning in a male-dominated space though
because I feel like a lot of what defines being a man is wrapped up in
patriarchy & toxic masculinity & being typically cis-het normative.


When I came out to my dad as trans, I’m not sure I mentioned a specific
gender. I just gave him a name & pronouns. I remember that he asked if
my desire to transition was in response to not wanting to deal with
misogyny in tech. My dad didn’t reliably refer to me how I wanted to be
& he only changed when he figured out he wouldn’t be able to have a
relationship with me through my mom anymore. I sought after validation
for my gender identity quite a bit from him since I thought my version
of masculinity was similar to his. I worried for a long time that I
was picking masculinity to escape misogyny. I know that’s not how it
works. Men don’t choose to be men. I will be dealing with both
transmisogyny & transmisandry for the rest of my life, assuming
people know I’m trans. I just couldn’t understand why I couldn’t
just be happy with femininity & my body like the cis women in my
life since I couldn’t be accepted as a man.


The way I’ve performed masculinity is by focusing on my work. Being good
at my job & being typically career-oriented is all I’ve ever wanted. To
make something incredible & be remembered for that work, hopefully!
I’ve been extremely lucky to have supportive coworkers at work where I'm
writing Haskell. I really enjoy writing Haskell & I guess I don’t _mind_
it being male-dominated because I’m also a man. The lack of visibility
of feminine folks bothers me a lot though.


People ask me why more women don’t write Haskell & actually I think
there are plenty of women who write Haskell, who deserve more support.
I haven't interacted with "the community" recently because of the
constant misogyny you can see in some of the people who are loud & write
Haskell. Navigating misogyny is not something I know how to do well
frankly. Being in spaces with less blatant misogyny has been a lot
better for my health & for my growth as a developer. Misogyny might also
be "the reason" that "more women" don’t pursue Haskell professionally or
as a hobby as frequently. But I don’t know, why don’t you think about
how you & other masculine folks you know treat the feminine-coded people
in your life before asking another woman developer?


I started writing Rust because someone told me it was kinda like Haskell
& they have a friendly community because of their code of conduct. There
are just a surprising number of trans folks in Rust & I think we just
recruit more by letting people in on the secret that Rust is a
programming language empowering everyone to be trans. I think there are
a lot of folks who aren't given the space to think about their gender,
which prevents people from "choosing" to transition. In Rust, my gender
identity has always been respected & I know it will continue to be. It's
amazing to know I have that support. Finding a group of trans-friendly
people was very important to continuing my transition & I’m glad I found
it in Rust. I learned that "not wanting to be a woman by default" & "not
wanting to be feminine" & "not wanting to deal with misogyny" are three
separate issues. I also learned a lot of new programming skills. Highly
recommend.


I’ve become friends with a lot of queer people, but especially trans
feminine people in & out of tech. I’ve been extremely grateful when
people have shared about their gender & sexuality. I’ve been able to
explore femininity through a lens that wasn’t heterosexuality. Playing
around with my presentation & presenting as a very queer femme was a
really wonderful experience. I felt like I finally had room to explore
gender & sexuality beyond the compulsory heterosexuality & gender I had
been assigned. I made femme looks that still made me feel masculine & I
realized that for the first time in my life people were just encouraging
me to present however *I* wanted. I have the space now to create the
presentation I want without the retaliation. I like presenting femme
still & honestly expect my presentation will still vary. Femme, for me,
is more of a performance & right now I’m only sharing that with people
who respect my identity as a masculine person.


I experienced a lot of isolation as a young girl wishing she was a boy,
sorta, but being very confused because of the compulsory heterosexuality
pushed on me by straight cis people & the expectations of womanhood on
top of that. I experienced a lot of violence in my life from my
inability to stand up for myself to other men & say I’m a man & I’d like
to be treated as such or saying that & being beaten back by them to put
me in my place, as a woman. The real misogyny was me adopting a style of
femininity to appease straight cis men. It was the only way I knew I
could stop the violence at the time though & having the lived experience
of misogyny as a perceived woman will always stay with me.


Today, I'm living with my girlfriend & my best friend at our house,
[Very Good Bad Thing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Very_Good_Bad_Thing),
in Denver. My friend, Megan, likes to name the places
she lives after album names. I picked the name as a joke about
testosterone & the mixed feelings I was working through in my
transition. She is the reason I adopted J as my first name as I
discovered who I was with regards to my gender & sexuality.  Grey is my
first romantic partner I came out to as a trans man who accepted me &
gave me the room to figure it out unconditionally. I'm hopeful with the
help of Grey, Megan, my mom & my sister, & all my friends in Denver that
I'll finish the major parts of my transition this year.


Thanks to all the women in my life for filling it with music & love, for
sharing compassion & vulnerability with me, for helping me truly
appreciate femininity. I've inevitably hurt people along the way as I've
figured this out. For times I wasn't sensitive or kind, I'm sorry. I was
full of a lot of hurt from years of transphobia & transmisandry. I'm
not going to let that hold me back anymore. I'm going to make a
presentation for myself, as a man, & remember to make room for those who
have to deal with misogyny all the ways I can.


~ Steven
